It was a snowy Sunday, the kind of wet snow that taunts you with just not quite the amount of warmth to keep everything from freezing, the kind of snow that makes people cancel their plans and stay indoors or if they were already outside when it started coming down, to run right into the closest open establishment, even if it was a kind of place like the Vera Cruz Cantina. The joint occupied strange place in the spectrum of New York City bars and restaurants. With its own bland take on inuathentic mexican cuisine, it was too suburban to attract patrons with any pretense of coolness, but frankly it was  just too much of a shithole for the ironed shirt happy hour crowd. It was like a place that existed simultaneously across the entire span of time, containing both the almost extinct Avenue A grime and and the uptight corporate nothingness that will surely swallow the neighborhood alive within the next decade.
Richie stood behind the bar with the kind of Sunday hangover that he had grown nostalgic about, as strange as that may sound. It had been a long time since his last one – longer than any other stretch he could remember. God, how long had it been, actually? A year and a half? He remembered the episode vaguely, it was a holiday party at some wife's friend's house. That means it was more than two years ago. Good God, two years. Where did the time go. The hangover brought with it a kind of dull, centering pain, with equal pressure on all sides of his brain, that made Richie feel like his head was being held, rather than crushed.
“Hey Richie,” called the good old loyal barfly Paul, shaking his glass and rattling the crushed ice, “another elixir to help me slow my racing heart.”
Richie grabbed the glass. “Use the same ice. There's still a little bit of magic in that water.” Richie refilled the glass from a bottle of rye. Of course, Paul would still come out on a day like this, Richie thought. Nothing could him away except for death itself, and even then Richie knew he would be serving rye on the rocks to Paul's ghost for as long as he was alive and when that changes, Richie will grab the bottle so they can share it as they walk together down to Hell.
“Be careful not to slow it down too much,” Richie said, “or I won't have any reason to come into work anymore. That being said, of course, feel free to buy as much of this as you need.”
“I don't need any of it you see. It's all in the mind. Of course, there some things you do physically” - he pointed at the glass “to help you perform better mentally.”
Richie screwed the cap back on the bottle. “There are monks, you know,” Paul continued, “I think in Burma, they kill themselves just by stopping their hearts with their minds. Some dogs, when their masters kick the bucket, they'll kill themselves the same way. Of course we don't know they're doing that because can't tell us, but we know that there's no reason they die other than the heart just stops.” Paul shrugged. “It's all in the head.”
“And how about you?” Richie asked. “Your owner die?”
“You can't own a living thing, Richie, man or beast. You can only rent. But me, no, I'm not ending my life. Just the opposite. I don't know how many ticks my clock has left in it, so I'm just looking to spread them out as much as I can. The world may not want me, but goddamn do I want the world. There's a whole lot of whiskey inside of it, last I checked. And when that runs out, I'll discover what other spirit suits me. Speaking of which.”
He shook the glass. It was empty except for the ice even though Richie had not seen him take a single sip. Maybe there was some magic inside Paul after all. Or maybe Richie was just tired and hungover.
The snow and the wind picked up together, turning the windows of the bar to white sheets of paper, and as if on cue, in stepped three young men, trimmed hair dusted with white. They approached the stools opposite Paul's side and took seats, opened overcoats revealing ironed shirts and flat pleatless trousers. Richie stared ahead in silence until the blonde member of the group called for his attention.
“Sorry gentlemen, my head's killing me.” He placed three coasters on the bar along with a pile of three laminated food menus. 
“Well get it together,” Paul replied to Richie's back. “The rest of us are trying to kill our heads.” He lifted his glass in a drinker's salute as one of the darker-haired kids ordered a round of bloody marys for him and his friends.
“You know, I've been working on a kind of jalapeno bloody mary,” Richie said. “My boss wants me to come up with some new drinks. You want to give this a try and tell me how it is?”
“If it sucks, are they free?” asked the dark-haired yuppie, his face almost impossibly absent of any excess hair.
“I'll give you happy hour prices, whether it sucks or not.”
“Cool, let's do it.”
On his way to mix the drinks, Richie stopped to switch on some music. Now with extra bodies inside, any period of silence became deafening. As he stirred the cups full of ice, tomato juice, and jalapeno-infused vodka, an early Ramones tune came lightly over the speakers. The three young customers tapped their feet. “Wasn't CBGBs around here?” asked the middle-haired one, breaking his own silence for the first time.
“Somewhere close by, I think.” The one in the middle play drums with hands and knees along with the song.
“About a half-mile and a couple decades away,” Richie said as he distributed the bloody marys. “Though its legacy lives on among people like me who are too fucked up to hold down regular jobs. The fucked-up-ness as a result of the music, the drugs, or just being hit in the head too many times, I don't know which.”
“Who needs a regular job?” asked the kid with the hairless face.
“Well, some regular money would be nice. But you know, I tried the whole corporate thing a while back. It just didn't take. Like when your body rejects an organ.”
“Speaking of which,” piped up Paul, “any of you young lads feel like trading livers? I can throw in a healthy gallbladder to make it worth your while.”
The young men laughed and sipped their drinks, each face contorting slightly on account of the spice. They talked to each other as Richie leaned in the doorway to kitchen and returned to silently savoring his hangover. He recalled now that his last was more than two years old, but he hadn't had a hangover like this in god knows how long. He remember clearly all the poundings of regret, the piecing together what was said and avoiding remembering too clairvoyantly what was done. The bad hangovers when Richie drank for a reason, when the drinking had consequences. The pain that continued and pushed through multiple doses of painkillers, the unrelenting fingertrap of being drunk and hungover at the same time. The shame of being asked why and guilted into making promises he couldn't keep and anger at being prosecuted for his future failures. 
“Richie, he knows all about marriage,” he heard Paul say. It took a moment to realize he was talking to the guys across the bar and not reading his thoughts.
“What's that, Paul?”
“This guy's getting married soon and they're talking about his bachelor party. I said they should talk to you because you know all about that.”
“Well, I have had a couple of bachelor parties. The first when left bachelorhood and second when I made my triumphant return.”
“Marriage didn't take either, huh?” asked the blonde kid, the soon-to-be-husband, and in that moment Richie could have clawed through the little shit's fleshy neck in order to choke him directly on the trachea. He wanted to grab the neck like a bottle and throw the kid to where the floor and the ground meet and shatter his bones into shards of glass. The universe must have blessed this unlikely congress and dictated that Richie would not be holding a bottle or other glass object at this moment, otherwise the young man may have suffered scars that would have put a damper on his wedding ceremony. “What the fuck do you know about it,” Richie asked, accidentally out loud. 
As he spoke, Richie stared into the young man's eyes and tried to shove all the hate straight into his brain. The goal was either to cause his death through a melting of the brain or at least to give him the fear and cause some kind of appropriate reaction, but what does the little fucker do, he laughs. He chuckled to himself and said, “I mean it's obvious it didn't work out, that's all.”
The tension now sliced up and buried Richie thought maybe he didn't mean anything by it. He was right, it clearly didn't take. Very few things in Richie's life took, but the ones that did took hard and they took Richie mind, body, and soul all the way to wherever they want. The kid will learn. Maybe Richie could teach him something.
“You see, any good relationship is based on lies. I mean that. Love may be the idea that gets things moving at first, but lies are the foundation for building a lasting relationship. Maybe for some people, the truth is all they need, but for the rest of us, it's lies. Total, committed, unwavering lies.”
“Then what happened to you?” asked one of the other guys.
“Not being committed enough to the lie. You see, my thing is I like to play pool. A fairly innocent hobby. It's better when there's money on the line, but I like to play pool. It relaxes me. It can't be at home though, I have to go out and play. Now, in places where you can pool – at least the kind of places I like to play – are also places where they serve drinks. One area where my wife and I never really agreed is that I went for the pool but I stayed for the drinks. Or rather, the drinks made me stay.”
The three young men were listening, and Paul too, though he'd heard this story before. 
“So there was one night I just had to get out of the house. I don't know. I get like that sometimes. It was like the mid-afternoon. I told my wife I had to run out to the hardware store, and I went to go play some pool. Now I wasn't planning on being there for a long time, but I lost track of time. I also lost a lot of money, at the pool table and at the bar. And I don't come home. I mean, at all, until the next morning. Obviously, this did not make for happy times in our house. I decided to tell her the truth, that I know I fucked up but that I was going to stop drinking, even if that meant I would stop playing pool. It was the truth in that I believed it, but the trouble was I had told this particular truth a few times in the past and she did not want to hear it.”
“And that was it?” asked the guy soon be married.
“Well, there's never an 'it,' but yeah, that was the true beginning of it, anyway.”
The three of them just nodded in sympathy. This was not the kind of advice young men wanted to hear, unless they were the kind of young men already destined to become men like Richie. These men were not of that ilk or at least did not think themselves so. The three sipped their bloody marys in silence as Richie stood leaning against the bar.
It was Paul who spoke next. “Well, there are some vices even the best of us can't shake. Speaking of which, I am going to light up a cigarette, if none of you gentlemen have any objection. And if you do object, then I'll light up the whole goddamn pack, so the choice is yours.”
Paul produced a cigarette from behind his ear previously hidden by his long graying hair. He placed the smoke in the his mouth and raised a light to his face, his eyes locked on Richie waiting for his next move.
“Come on, Paul, we go over this all the time. You can't smoke in here.”
“Well if the cops come in and bust me, I'll pay the fine, how about that? No one in here cares.” He looked at the three friends, who all shook their heads no. “You see? People like smokey bars. Especially the younger crowd who didn't get to experience them when those were the only kinds of bars we had. It's nostalgic. The prototypical bar scene. I guarantee, you fill this place with cigarette smoke, maybe get some fucker in here to play the piano, there'd be more than just the five of us in here.”
“OK, fine.” Before Richie could ask Paul to bum a smoke, he threw the pack across the bar. Richie took one and lit it up. So there they were, smoking their cigarettes on either side of the bar, two sides of a coin, Richie the tail pouring drinks into Paul's head, both with black t-shirts tucked into black jeans and covering their, black lungs. 
The place lacking ash trays, Richie took an empty whiskey bottle from the trash and plopped it onto the bar to hold the ash and eventual butts.


